# Investigate TMDb Movie Data 
The goal of this project is to explore and analyze the data set trying to answer questions related to movies and actors and their relationships that genre, budget, profit, popularity, more movies made, etc.

## Datasets
The dataset can be find in this link  [data](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTlVmknRRnfy_4eTrjw5hYGaiQim5ctr9naaRd4V9du2B5bxpd8FEH3KtDgp8qVekw7Cj1GLk1IXdZi/pub). The dimension of the dataset is 1866 rows and 21 columns.
This database contains the following features:-

    movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
    imdb_id - A unique identifier for each movie on IMDB.
    cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
    director - the director of the movie
    budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
    genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
    homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
    id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
    keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
    original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
    overview - A brief description of the movie.
    popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
    production_companies - The production house of the movie.
    production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
    release_date - The date on which it was released.
    revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
    runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
    tagline - Movie's tagline.
    vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
    budget_adj - shows the budget associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.
    revenue_adj - shows the revenue associated movie in terms of 2010 dollars.


## Questions to answer
>How popularity can afect adjusted revenue and profit by movie?  
How high budgets can afect popularity  
What are the 20 most profitable movies of all time?  
Do big budgets produce big revenue?  
What is the total number of movies by year?  
Who are the top 20 directors by profit?  
Who are the top 10 directors by popularity?  
The top 10 directors with more movies.  
Which genres are most popular over time?  
What are the most common genres with the greatest number of films over time?  
What are the 20 most profitable genres by movie over time?  
What are the 20 most profitable companies over time in US dollars?  
What is the relationship between profit per movie and the total number of movies made?  
The top 20 actors with the most movies.  
The top 10 vote_average actors.  
What kinds of properties are associated with movies that have high revenues?  


## Conclusion
The conclusions of the data exploration can be found at the end of the investigate_dataSet_Proyect.ipynb file or investigate_dataSet_Proyect.html


